docs/windows_setup.md, before:

# Windows / WSL2 Setup

This guide walks through running the Culture.ai simulation on Windows using WSL2.
It covers enabling WSL2, installing Python 3.10, setting up Ollama, and running
the vertical slice example.

## Enable WSL2

1. Open **PowerShell** as Administrator and run:
   ```powershell
   wsl --install
   ```
   This installs the WSL features and Ubuntu by default. Reboot if prompted.
2. Ensure WSL 2 is the default version:
   ```powershell
   wsl --set-default-version 2
   ```

## Install Python 3.10

Inside your WSL distribution install Python 3.10 and the virtual environment
modules:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3.10 python3.10-venv python3.10-distutils
```

Create a virtual environment for the project:

```bash
python3.10 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
# Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate.bat (or .venv\Scripts\activate.bat)
```

Alternatively, run the helper script to automatically create `.venv` and
install all test requirements:

```cmd
scripts\setup_test_env.bat
```

Copy the example environment file and customize it if needed:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Use `copy .env.example .env` from PowerShell
```

Edit `OLLAMA_API_BASE` in `.env` if your Ollama server uses a different URL.

If you plan to run Discord bots, also set `DISCORD_TOKENS_DB_URL` to your
PostgreSQL connection string and create the required table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS discord_tokens (
    agent_id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    token TEXT NOT NULL
);
```

## Install Ollama (≥0.1.34)

Culture.ai relies on the WSL build of **Ollama**. Install or upgrade it with:

```bash
curl https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh
```

Verify you have version `0.1.34` or newer:

```bash
ollama --version
```

Expose port `11434` to your Windows host when launching Ollama so the Python
services can reach it. Pull the required model:

```bash
ollama pull mistral:latest
ollama serve &
```

## Run the Example Vertical Slice

1. Install the CUDA-enabled PyTorch build and the remaining project requirements:
   ```bash
   pip install --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121 torch==2.3.0+cu121
   pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```
   The requirements file pins this PyTorch version, so ensure your system has CUDA 12.1 or a compatible driver installed.
   If your Windows setup lacks a supported CUDA driver, install the CPU-only build instead:
   ```bash
   pip install torch==2.3.0+cpu -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
   ```
   You may also consult the [PyTorch installation selector](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) for alternate versions.
2. Execute the demo using your running Ollama instance:
   ```bash
   python -m examples.walking_vertical_slice
   ```
   On Windows you can instead run the convenience script:
   ```cmd
   scripts\vertical_slice.bat
   ```

The script checks for both `venv` and `.venv` directories and activates the first one it finds.

The script launches three agents for a few steps and stores their memories in
ChromaDB. See `docs/walking_vertical_slice.md` for details.

To verify the setup you can also run the integration test:

```bash
pytest tests/integration/agents/test_vertical_slice_real_llm.py -m integration
```

This test is skipped automatically if Ollama is not running.

## Run the Simulation

Once Ollama is running and your `.env` is configured, launch the main application:

```bash
python -m src.app --steps 5 --discord
```

The `--steps` flag sets how many iterations to perform before exiting. Use `--discord` to enable interaction with your configured Discord bot.

To enable deterministic replay of simulations, follow [docs/redpanda_setup.md](redpanda_setup.md) to install Redpanda and set the `ENABLE_REDPANDA` and `REDPANDA_BROKER` environment variables.

Commit message:

Add Windows batch script for vLLM

docs/windows_setup.md, after:

# Windows / WSL2 Setup

This guide walks through running the Culture.ai simulation on Windows using WSL2.
It covers enabling WSL2, installing Python 3.10, setting up Ollama, and running
the vertical slice example.

## Enable WSL2

1. Open **PowerShell** as Administrator and run:
   ```powershell
   wsl --install
   ```
   This installs the WSL features and Ubuntu by default. Reboot if prompted.
2. Ensure WSL 2 is the default version:
   ```powershell
   wsl --set-default-version 2
   ```

## Install Python 3.10

Inside your WSL distribution install Python 3.10 and the virtual environment
modules:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3.10 python3.10-venv python3.10-distutils
```

Create a virtual environment for the project:

```bash
python3.10 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
# Windows:
# venv\Scripts\activate.bat (or .venv\Scripts\activate.bat)
```

Alternatively, run the helper script to automatically create `.venv` and
install all test requirements:

```cmd
scripts\setup_test_env.bat
```

Copy the example environment file and customize it if needed:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Use `copy .env.example .env` from PowerShell
```

Edit `OLLAMA_API_BASE` in `.env` if your Ollama server uses a different URL.

If you plan to run Discord bots, also set `DISCORD_TOKENS_DB_URL` to your
PostgreSQL connection string and create the required table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS discord_tokens (
    agent_id TEXT PRIMARY KEY,
    token TEXT NOT NULL
);
```

## Install Ollama (≥0.1.34)

Culture.ai relies on the WSL build of **Ollama**. Install or upgrade it with:

```bash
curl https://ollama.ai/install.sh | sh
```

Verify you have version `0.1.34` or newer:

```bash
ollama --version
```

Expose port `11434` to your Windows host when launching Ollama so the Python
services can reach it. Pull the required model:

```bash
ollama pull mistral:latest
ollama serve &
```

Alternatively you can run the model with **vLLM**. Start the server from WSL or any
shell where Python is available:

```cmd
scripts\start_vllm.bat
```

This script mirrors `scripts/start_vllm.sh` and honors the `VLLM_MODEL`,
`VLLM_PORT`, and `VLLM_SWAP_SPACE` environment variables.

## Run the Example Vertical Slice

1. Install the CUDA-enabled PyTorch build and the remaining project requirements:
   ```bash
   pip install --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121 torch==2.3.0+cu121
   pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```
   The requirements file pins this PyTorch version, so ensure your system has CUDA 12.1 or a compatible driver installed.
   If your Windows setup lacks a supported CUDA driver, install the CPU-only build instead:
   ```bash
   pip install torch==2.3.0+cpu -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
   ```
   You may also consult the [PyTorch installation selector](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) for alternate versions.
2. Execute the demo using your running Ollama instance:
   ```bash
   python -m examples.walking_vertical_slice
   ```
   On Windows you can instead run the convenience script:
   ```cmd
   scripts\vertical_slice.bat
   ```

The script checks for both `venv` and `.venv` directories and activates the first one it finds.

The script launches three agents for a few steps and stores their memories in
ChromaDB. See `docs/walking_vertical_slice.md` for details.

To verify the setup you can also run the integration test:

```bash
pytest tests/integration/agents/test_vertical_slice_real_llm.py -m integration
```

This test is skipped automatically if Ollama is not running.

## Run the Simulation

Once Ollama is running and your `.env` is configured, launch the main application:

```bash
python -m src.app --steps 5 --discord
```

The `--steps` flag sets how many iterations to perform before exiting. Use `--discord` to enable interaction with your configured Discord bot.

To enable deterministic replay of simulations, follow [docs/redpanda_setup.md](redpanda_setup.md) to install Redpanda and set the `ENABLE_REDPANDA` and `REDPANDA_BROKER` environment variables.
